[docs] Add Nsight system docs on Ray (#40396)
ray-project/ray: doc/source/ray-observability/user-guides/profiling.md

## GPU profiling
GPU and GRAM profiling for your GPU workloads like distributed training. This helps you analyze performance and debug memory issues. 
- PyTorch profiler is supported out of box when used with Ray Train
- NVIDIA Nsight System is natively supported on Ray.

(profiling-pytorch-profiler)=
### PyTorch Profiler
PyTorch Profiler is a tool that allows the collection of performance metrics (especially GPU metrics) during training and inference.

Here are the {ref}`steps to use PyTorch Profiler with Ray Train or Ray Data <performance-debugging-gpu-profiling>`.

(profiling-nsight-profiler)=

> ### Nsight Profiler

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Nsight Visual Profiler
```

#### Installation

First, install the Nsight System CLI by following the [Nsight User Guide](https://docs.nvidia.com/nsight-systems/InstallationGuide/index.html). 

> Confirm Nsight is installed correctly:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Confirm that you installed Nsight correctly:
```

```bash
$ nsys --version

# NVIDIA Nsight Systems version 2022.4.1.21-0db2c85
```

#### Run Nsight on Ray

> To enable GPU profiling, you can specify the config in `runtime_env` as follows:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To enable GPU profiling, specify the config in the `runtime_env` as follows:
```

```python
import torch
import ray

ray.init()

@ray.remote(num_gpus=1, runtime_env={ "nsight": "default"})
class RayActor:
    def run():
    a = torch.tensor([1.0, 2.0, 3.0]).cuda()
    b = torch.tensor([4.0, 5.0, 6.0]).cuda()
    c = a * b

    print("Result on GPU:", c)

ray_actor = RayActor.remote()
# Actor/task process will run with : "nsys profile [default options] ..."
ray.get(ray_actor.run.remote())
```

> The `"default"` config can be found in [nsight.py](https://github.com/ray-project/ray/blob/master/python/ray/_private/runtime_env/nsight.py#L20).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can find the `"default"` config in [nsight.py](https://github.com/ray-project/ray/blob/master/python/ray/_private/runtime_env/nsight.py#L20).
```

> #### Custom Options

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#### Custom options
```

> You can also add [custom options](https://docs.nvidia.com/nsight-systems/UserGuide/index.html#cli-profile-command-switch-options) for Nsight profiler by specfying a dictionary of option values which will overwrite the `default` config (except for the `--output` option of the default config is preserved).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can also add [custom options](https://docs.nvidia.com/nsight-systems/UserGuide/index.html#cli-profile-command-switch-options) for Nsight Visual Profiler by specifying a dictionary of option values, which overwrites the `default` config, however, Ray preserves the the `--output` option of the default config.
```

```python
import torch
import ray

ray.init()

@ray.remote(
num_gpus=1, 
runtime_env={ "nsight": {
    "t": "cuda,cudnn,cublas",
    "cuda-memory-usage": "true",
    "cuda-graph-trace": "graph",
}})
class RayActor:
    def run():
    a = torch.tensor([1.0, 2.0, 3.0]).cuda()
    b = torch.tensor([4.0, 5.0, 6.0]).cuda()
    c = a * b

    print("Result on GPU:", c)

ray_actor = RayActor.remote()

> # Actor/task process will run with :

Reviewer: ```suggestion
# The Actor or Task process runs with :
```

# "nsys profile -t cuda,cudnn,cublas --cuda-memory-usage=True --cuda-graph-trace=graph ..."
ray.get(ray_actor.run.remote())
```

**Note:**: The default report filename (`-o, --output`) is `worker_process_{pid}.nsys-rep` in the logs dir.

> #### Profiling Result

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#### Profiling result
```

> Profiling results can be found under the `/tmp/ray/session_*/logs/{profiler_name}` directory (subject to change). Users can download the profiling reports from the {ref}`Ray Dashboard <dash-logs-view>`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Find profiling results under the `/tmp/ray/session_*/logs/{profiler_name}` directory. This specific directory location may change in the future. You can download the profiling reports from the {ref}`Ray Dashboard <dash-logs-view>`.
```

> ![Nsight profiler folder](../images/nsight-profiler-folder.png)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
![Nsight Visual Profiler folder](../images/nsight-profiler-folder.png)
```

> To visualize the result, you need to install the [Nsight System GUI](https://developer.nvidia.com/nsight-systems/get-started#latest-Platforms) on your laptop. This is called the host. Then, transfer the .nsys-rep file to your host and open it using the GUI. You can now view the visual profiling info!

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To visualize the results, install the [Nsight System GUI](https://developer.nvidia.com/nsight-systems/get-started#latest-Platforms) on your laptop, which becomes the host. Transfer the .nsys-rep file to your host and open it using the GUI. You can now view the visual profiling info.
```

> **Note**: The Nsight profiler output (-o, --output) option allows you to set the path to a filename. Ray uses the logs directory as the base and appends the output option to it. For example: 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**Note**: The Nsight Visual Profiler output (-o, --output) option allows you to set the path to a filename. Ray uses the logs directory as the base and appends the output option to it. For example: 
```

```
--output job_name/ray_worker -> /tmp/ray/session_*/logs/nsight/job_name/ray_worker

--output /Users/Desktop/job_name/ray_worker -> /Users/Desktop/job_name/ray_worker
```

> As a best practice, only specify the filename in output option.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The best practice is to only specify the filename in output option.
```

(profiling-timeline)=

> ## Ray Task / Actor timeline

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Ray Task or Actor timeline
```

## GPU profiling
GPU and GRAM profiling for your GPU workloads like distributed training. This helps you analyze performance and debug memory issues. 
- PyTorch profiler is supported out of box when used with Ray Train

> - {ref}`NVIDIA Nsight System <ray-profiling>` is now natively supported

Reviewer 2: Add a sentence here to link to the new user guide.

> (profiling-pytoch-profiler)=

Reviewer 2: Typo: `profiling-pytoch-profiler` -> `profiling-pytorch-profiler`
